1. INTRODUCTION
1.1 Background
MMA (Mixed Martial Arts) is one of the newest sport that has emerged to the mainstream professional sports scene. As the name implies, MMA brings together different principles of combat skills whether it be striking (e.g. Taekwondo, Karate, Kickboxing or Boxing) or grappling (e.g. Wrestling, Judo, Sambo, or Jujitsu). Therefore, the best athletes in MMA are not necessarily the best in a single principle of martial art but are those who can apply different skills and techniques in the most effective way to their opponents.
The most prominent organization in MMA is the Ultimate Fighting Championship (UFC), which held its first event in the early 1990’s and was sold to the Fertitta brothers for merely $2 million in the early 2000’s.  Since then, the organization has secured television deals with Fox Sports and ESPN in turn and has now evolved into a multibillion-dollar business. 

1.2 Problem
UFC has over 500 athletes on the active roster that are considered to be the toughest and the most dangerous men and women on the planet. They compete in different weight classes (i.e., 8 for men and 4 for women) with each class having a champion and top 15 fighters ranked in order after the champion. 
The ultimate question among fans is then “who is the best fighter”? Opinions vary among followers of the sport but the most credible way is to look at the rankings published by UFC. 
“Rankings were generated by a voting panel made up of media members. The media members were asked to vote for who they feel are the top fighters in the UFC by weight-class and pound-for-pound. A fighter is only eligible to be voted on if they are in active status in the UFC.” (https://www.ufc.com/rankings)
If we were to decide the best fighter regardless of his/her weight class, it seems that the pound-for-pound ranking would give us the best answer. However, the rankings are based on the select media members’ votes, which may not necessarily reflect the true performance of the fighters as the voting members’ personal biases can play a significant role.
Many UFC fans enjoy the sport not only by watching the events in person or via PPV (pay-per-view) purchases but also by participating in betting. Navigating an alternative way to evaluate fighters based on statistics will provide additional platforms for discussions among fans and help expand the fan base for UFC and the sport in the future. Therefore, my analysis will be an area of interest to the MMA fans as well as business stakeholders in the industry.
